linen_examples/wmt/README.md, before:

## Machine Translation
Trains a Transformer-based model (Vaswani *et al.*, 2017) on the WMT Machine
Translation en-de dataset.

This example uses linear learning rate warmup and inverse square root learning
rate schedule.

### Requirements
* TensorFlow datasets `wmt17_translate/de-en` and `wmt14_translate/de-en` need to be
 downloaded and prepared. A sentencepiece tokenizer vocabulary will be automatically
 generated and saved on each training run. 
* This example additionally depends on the `sentencepiece` and `tensorflow-text` packages.

### Supported setups
The model should run with other configurations and hardware, but was explicitly tested on the following.

| Hardware | Batch size | Training time | BLEU | TensorBoard.dev |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TPU v3-8  | 256  |  1h 35m  | 25.13 | [2020-04-21](https://tensorboard.dev/experiment/9lsbEw7DQzKdv881v4nIQA/) |

### How to run
  `python train.py --batch_size=256 --model_dir=./wmt_256 --reverse_translation=True`

### How to run on Cloud TPUs

Creating a [Cloud TPU](https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/quickstart) involves creating the user GCE VM and the TPU node.

To create a user GCE VM, run the following command from your GCP console or your computer terminal where you have [gcloud installed](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/install).

```
export ZONE=europe-west4-a
gcloud compute instances create $USER-user-vm-0001 \
   --machine-type=n1-standard-16 \
   --image-project=ml-images \
   --image-family=tf-2-2 \
   --boot-disk-size=200GB \
   --scopes=cloud-platform \
   --zone=$ZONE
```

To create a larger GCE VM, choose a different [machine type](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types).

Next, create the TPU node, following these [guidelines](https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/internal-ip-blocks) to choose a <TPU_IP_ADDRESS>. e.g.:

```
export TPU_IP_ADDRESS=192.168.0.2
gcloud compute tpus create $USER-tpu-0001 \
      --zone=$ZONE \
      --network=default \
      --accelerator-type=v3-8 \
      --range=$TPU_IP_ADDRESS \
      --version=tpu_driver_nightly
```

Now that you have created both the user GCE VM and the TPU node, ssh to the GCE VM by executing the following command,
including a local port forwarding rule for viewing tensorboard:

```
gcloud compute ssh $USER-user-vm-0001 -- -L 2222:localhost:8888
```

Be sure to install the latest `jax` and `jaxlib` packages alongside the other requirements above.
e.g. as of April 2020 the following package versions were used successfully:
```
pip install -U pip
pip install -U setuptools wheel
pip install -U pip jax jaxlib sentencepiece \
  tensorflow==2.2.0rc3 tensorflow-datasets==3.0.0 \
  tensorflow-text==2.2.0rc2 tensorboard
git clone https://github.com/google/flax
pip install -e flax
```

Then, if your TPU is at IP `192.168.0.2`:
  `python train.py --batch_size=256 --model_dir=./wmt_256 --jax_backend_target="grpc://192.168.0.2:8470"`

A tensorboard instance can then be launched and viewed on your local 2222 port via the tunnel:
  `tensorboard --logdir wmt_256 --port 8888`

### Downloading the WMT Datasets

We recommend downloading and preparing the TFDS datasets beforehand.  For Cloud TPUs, we
recommend using a cheap standard instance and saving the prepared TFDS data on a storage bucket,
from where it can be loaded directly during training using the `--data_dir=gs://...` option.

You can download and prepare any of the WMT datasets using TFDS directly:
```
python -m tensorflow_datasets.scripts.download_and_prepare --datasets=wmt17_translate/de-en
```

The typical academic BLEU evaluation also uses the WMT 2014 Test set:
```
python -m tensorflow_datasets.scripts.download_and_prepare --datasets=wmt14_translate/de-en
```

Commit message:

Add separate main.py, switch to ConfigDict and add basic test case.
It was easier to combine these changes. The main.py is fairly generic and should look the same in all examples. The config is the same as flags apart from:
- random_seed => seed
- model_dir => workdir (as flag)
- data_dir => Use the TFDS_DATA_DIR environment variable
- new num_predict_steps to limit the number of prediction steps in the test case.

PiperOrigin-RevId: 342034048

linen_examples/wmt/README.md, after:

## Machine Translation
Trains a Transformer-based model (Vaswani *et al.*, 2017) on the WMT Machine
Translation en-de dataset.

This example uses linear learning rate warmup and inverse square root learning
rate schedule.

### Requirements
* TensorFlow datasets `wmt17_translate/de-en` and `wmt14_translate/de-en` need to be
 downloaded and prepared. A sentencepiece tokenizer vocabulary will be automatically
 generated and saved on each training run.
* This example additionally depends on the `sentencepiece` and `tensorflow-text` packages.

### Supported setups
The model should run with other configurations and hardware, but was explicitly tested on the following.

| Hardware | Batch size | Training time | BLEU | TensorBoard.dev |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TPU v3-8  | 256  |  1h 35m  | 25.13 | [2020-04-21](https://tensorboard.dev/experiment/9lsbEw7DQzKdv881v4nIQA/) |

### How to run
`python main.py --workdir=./wmt_256 --config.batch_size=256 --config.reverse_translation=True`

### How to run on Cloud TPUs

Creating a [Cloud TPU](https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/quickstart) involves creating the user GCE VM and the TPU node.

To create a user GCE VM, run the following command from your GCP console or your computer terminal where you have [gcloud installed](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/install).

```
export ZONE=europe-west4-a
gcloud compute instances create $USER-user-vm-0001 \
   --machine-type=n1-standard-16 \
   --image-project=ml-images \
   --image-family=tf-2-2 \
   --boot-disk-size=200GB \
   --scopes=cloud-platform \
   --zone=$ZONE
```

To create a larger GCE VM, choose a different [machine type](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/machine-types).

Next, create the TPU node, following these [guidelines](https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/internal-ip-blocks) to choose a <TPU_IP_ADDRESS>. e.g.:

```
export TPU_IP_ADDRESS=192.168.0.2
gcloud compute tpus create $USER-tpu-0001 \
      --zone=$ZONE \
      --network=default \
      --accelerator-type=v3-8 \
      --range=$TPU_IP_ADDRESS \
      --version=tpu_driver_nightly
```

Now that you have created both the user GCE VM and the TPU node, ssh to the GCE VM by executing the following command,
including a local port forwarding rule for viewing tensorboard:

```
gcloud compute ssh $USER-user-vm-0001 -- -L 2222:localhost:8888
```

Be sure to install the latest `jax` and `jaxlib` packages alongside the other requirements above.
e.g. as of April 2020 the following package versions were used successfully:
```
pip install -U pip
pip install -U setuptools wheel
pip install -U pip jax jaxlib sentencepiece \
  tensorflow==2.2.0rc3 tensorflow-datasets==3.0.0 \
  tensorflow-text==2.2.0rc2 tensorboard
git clone https://github.com/google/flax
pip install -e flax
```

Then, if your TPU is at IP `192.168.0.2`:
`python main.py --workdir=./wmt_256 --config.batch_size=256 --jax_backend_target="grpc://192.168.0.2:8470"`

A tensorboard instance can then be launched and viewed on your local 2222 port via the tunnel:
`tensorboard --logdir wmt_256 --port 8888`

### Downloading the WMT Datasets

We recommend downloading and preparing the TFDS datasets beforehand.  For Cloud TPUs, we
recommend using a cheap standard instance and saving the prepared TFDS data on a storage bucket,
from where it can be loaded directly. Set the `TFDS_DATA_DIR` to your storage bucket path (`gs://<bucket name>`).

You can download and prepare any of the WMT datasets using TFDS directly:
```
python -m tensorflow_datasets.scripts.download_and_prepare --datasets=wmt17_translate/de-en
```

The typical academic BLEU evaluation also uses the WMT 2014 Test set:
```
python -m tensorflow_datasets.scripts.download_and_prepare --datasets=wmt14_translate/de-en
```
