README.md, before:

# Flax: A neural network library and ecosystem for JAX designed for flexibility

![Build](https://github.com/google/flax/workflows/Build/badge.svg?branch=master) [![coverage](https://badgen.net/codecov/c/github/google/flax)](https://codecov.io/github/google/flax)


[**Overview**](#overview)
| [**Quick install**](#quick-install)
| [**What does Flax look like?**](#what-does-flax-look-like)
| [**Documentation**](https://flax.readthedocs.io/)

**See our [full documentation](https://flax.readthedocs.io/)
to learn everything you need to know about Flax.**

Flax is developed by a group within the Brain Team in Google Research, in
close collaboration with the JAX team. Flax is being used by a growing
community of hundreds of folks in various Alphabet research departments
for their daily work, as well as a [growing community
of open source
projects](https://github.com/google/flax/network/dependents?dependent_type=REPOSITORY).

The Flax team's mission is to serve the growing JAX neural network
research ecosystem -- both within Alphabet and with the broader community,
and to explore the use-cases where JAX shines. We use GitHub for almost
all of our coordination and planning, as well as where we discuss
upcoming design changes. We welcome feedback on any of our discussion,
issue and pull request thread. We are in the process of moving some
remaining internal design docs and conversation threads to GitHub
discussions, issues and pull requests. We hope to increasingly engage
with the needs and clarifications of the broader ecosystem. Please let
us know how we can help!

**NOTE**: The new Flax ["Linen" module
API](https://github.com/google/flax/tree/master/flax/linen/README.md)
is now stable and we recommend it for all new projects. The old
`flax.nn` API will be deprecated.

Please report any feature requests,
issues, questions or concerns in our [discussion
forum](https://github.com/google/flax/discussions), or just let us
know what you're working on!

We expect to add some improvements to Flax, but we only expect minor
API changes to the core API. We will use [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md)
entries and deprecation warnings when possible.

In case you want to reach us directly, we're at flax-dev@google.com.

## Overview

Flax is a high-performance neural network library and ecosystem for
JAX that is **designed for flexibility**:
Try new forms of training by forking an example and by modifying the training
loop, not by adding features to a framework.

Flax is being developed in close collaboration with the JAX team and
comes with everything you need to start your research, including:

* **Neural network API** (`flax.linen`): Dense, Conv, {Batch|Layer|Group} Norm, Attention, Pooling, {LSTM|GRU} Cell, Dropout

* **Optimizers** (`flax.optim`): SGD, Momentum, Adam, LARS, Adagrad, LAMB, RMSprop

* **Utilities and patterns**: replicated training, serialization and checkpointing, metrics, prefetching on device

* **Educational examples** that work out of the box: MNIST, LSTM seq2seq, Graph Neural Networks, Sequence Tagging

* **Fast, tuned large-scale end-to-end examples**: CIFAR10, ResNet on ImageNet, Transformer LM1b

## Quick install

You will need Python 3.6 or later and a working [JAX](https://github.com/google/jax/blob/master/README.md)
installation (with or without GPU support, see instructions there). For a
CPU-only version:

```
> pip install --upgrade pip # To support manylinux2010 wheels.
> pip install --upgrade jax jaxlib # CPU-only
```

Then install Flax from PyPi:

```
> pip install flax
```

To upgrade to the latest version of Flax, you can use:

```
> pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/google/flax.git
```

## What does Flax look like?

We provide three examples using the Flax API: a simple multi-layer perceptron, a CNN and an auto-encoder. 

To learn more about the `Module` abstraction, please check our [docs](https://flax.readthedocs.io/), our [broad intro to the Module abstraction](https://github.com/google/flax/blob/master/docs/notebooks/linen_intro.ipynb) or visit our
[HOWTO guides](https://flax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/howtos.html) page for additional concrete demonstrations of best practices.

```py
class MLP(nn.Module):
  features: Sequence[int]

  @nn.compact
  def __call__(self, x):
    for feat in self.features[:-1]:
      x = nn.relu(Dense(feat)(x))
    x = Dense(self.features[-1])(x)
    return x
```

```py
class CNN(nn.Module):
  @nn.compact
  def __call__(self, x):
    x = nn.Conv(features=32, kernel_size=(3, 3))(x)
    x = nn.relu(x)
    x = nn.avg_pool(x, window_shape=(2, 2), strides=(2, 2))
    x = nn.Conv(features=64, kernel_size=(3, 3))(x)
    x = nn.relu(x)
    x = nn.avg_pool(x, window_shape=(2, 2), strides=(2, 2))
    x = x.reshape((x.shape[0], -1))  # flatten
    x = nn.Dense(features=256)(x)
    x = nn.relu(x)
    x = nn.Dense(features=10)(x)
    x = nn.log_softmax(x)
    return x
```

```py
class AutoEncoder(Module):
  encoder_widths: Sequence[int]
  decoder_widths: Sequence[int]
  input_shape: Tuple[int] = None

  def setup(self):
    self.encoder = MLP(self.encoder_widths)
    self.decoder = MLP(self.decoder_widths + (jnp.prod(self.input_shape, ))

  def __call__(self, x):
    return self.decode(self.encode(x))

  def encode(self, x):
    assert x.shape[1:] == self.input_shape
    return self.encoder(jnp.reshape(x, (x.shape[0], -1)))

  def decode(self, z):
    z = self.decoder(z)
    x = nn.sigmoid(z)
    x = jnp.reshape(x, (x.shape[0],) + self.input_shape)
    return x
```

## Note

Flax is an open source project maintained by a dedicated team in Google Research, but is not an official Google product.

Commit message:

Update README to describe community involvement

README.md, after:

# Flax: A neural network library and ecosystem for JAX designed for flexibility

![Build](https://github.com/google/flax/workflows/Build/badge.svg?branch=master) [![coverage](https://badgen.net/codecov/c/github/google/flax)](https://codecov.io/github/google/flax)


[**Overview**](#overview)
| [**Quick install**](#quick-install)
| [**What does Flax look like?**](#what-does-flax-look-like)
| [**Documentation**](https://flax.readthedocs.io/)

**See our [full documentation](https://flax.readthedocs.io/)
to learn everything you need to know about Flax.**

Flax was originally started by engineers and researchers within the Brain Team in Google Research (in close collaboration with the JAX team), and is now developed jointly with the open source community.

Flax is being used by a growing
community of hundreds of folks in various Alphabet research departments
for their daily work, as well as a [growing community
of open source
projects](https://github.com/google/flax/network/dependents?dependent_type=REPOSITORY).

The Flax team's mission is to serve the growing JAX neural network
research ecosystem -- both within Alphabet and with the broader community,
and to explore the use-cases where JAX shines. We use GitHub for almost
all of our coordination and planning, as well as where we discuss
upcoming design changes. We welcome feedback on any of our discussion,
issue and pull request thread. We are in the process of moving some
remaining internal design docs and conversation threads to GitHub
discussions, issues and pull requests. We hope to increasingly engage
with the needs and clarifications of the broader ecosystem. Please let
us know how we can help!

**NOTE**: The new Flax ["Linen" module
API](https://github.com/google/flax/tree/master/flax/linen/README.md)
is now stable and we recommend it for all new projects. The old
`flax.nn` API will be deprecated.

Please report any feature requests,
issues, questions or concerns in our [discussion
forum](https://github.com/google/flax/discussions), or just let us
know what you're working on!

We expect to improve to Flax, but we don't anticipate signifcant
breaking changes to the core API. We use [Changelog](CHANGELOG.md)
entries and deprecation warnings when possible.

In case you want to reach us directly, we're at flax-dev@google.com.

## Overview

Flax is a high-performance neural network library and ecosystem for
JAX that is **designed for flexibility**:
Try new forms of training by forking an example and by modifying the training
loop, not by adding features to a framework.

Flax is being developed in close collaboration with the JAX team and
comes with everything you need to start your research, including:

* **Neural network API** (`flax.linen`): Dense, Conv, {Batch|Layer|Group} Norm, Attention, Pooling, {LSTM|GRU} Cell, Dropout

* **Optimizers** (`flax.optim`): SGD, Momentum, Adam, LARS, Adagrad, LAMB, RMSprop

* **Utilities and patterns**: replicated training, serialization and checkpointing, metrics, prefetching on device

* **Educational examples** that work out of the box: MNIST, LSTM seq2seq, Graph Neural Networks, Sequence Tagging

* **Fast, tuned large-scale end-to-end examples**: CIFAR10, ResNet on ImageNet, Transformer LM1b

## Quick install

You will need Python 3.6 or later and a working [JAX](https://github.com/google/jax/blob/master/README.md)
installation (with or without GPU support, see instructions there). For a
CPU-only version:

```
> pip install --upgrade pip # To support manylinux2010 wheels.
> pip install --upgrade jax jaxlib # CPU-only
```

Then install Flax from PyPi:

```
> pip install flax
```

To upgrade to the latest version of Flax, you can use:

```
> pip install --upgrade git+https://github.com/google/flax.git
```

## What does Flax look like?

We provide three examples using the Flax API: a simple multi-layer perceptron, a CNN and an auto-encoder. 

To learn more about the `Module` abstraction, please check our [docs](https://flax.readthedocs.io/), our [broad intro to the Module abstraction](https://github.com/google/flax/blob/master/docs/notebooks/linen_intro.ipynb) or visit our
[HOWTO guides](https://flax.readthedocs.io/en/latest/howtos.html) page for additional concrete demonstrations of best practices.

```py
class MLP(nn.Module):
  features: Sequence[int]

  @nn.compact
  def __call__(self, x):
    for feat in self.features[:-1]:
      x = nn.relu(Dense(feat)(x))
    x = Dense(self.features[-1])(x)
    return x
```

```py
class CNN(nn.Module):
  @nn.compact
  def __call__(self, x):
    x = nn.Conv(features=32, kernel_size=(3, 3))(x)
    x = nn.relu(x)
    x = nn.avg_pool(x, window_shape=(2, 2), strides=(2, 2))
    x = nn.Conv(features=64, kernel_size=(3, 3))(x)
    x = nn.relu(x)
    x = nn.avg_pool(x, window_shape=(2, 2), strides=(2, 2))
    x = x.reshape((x.shape[0], -1))  # flatten
    x = nn.Dense(features=256)(x)
    x = nn.relu(x)
    x = nn.Dense(features=10)(x)
    x = nn.log_softmax(x)
    return x
```

```py
class AutoEncoder(Module):
  encoder_widths: Sequence[int]
  decoder_widths: Sequence[int]
  input_shape: Tuple[int] = None

  def setup(self):
    self.encoder = MLP(self.encoder_widths)
    self.decoder = MLP(self.decoder_widths + (jnp.prod(self.input_shape, ))

  def __call__(self, x):
    return self.decode(self.encode(x))

  def encode(self, x):
    assert x.shape[1:] == self.input_shape
    return self.encoder(jnp.reshape(x, (x.shape[0], -1)))

  def decode(self, z):
    z = self.decoder(z)
    x = nn.sigmoid(z)
    x = jnp.reshape(x, (x.shape[0],) + self.input_shape)
    return x
```

## Note

Flax is an open source project maintained by a dedicated team in Google Research, but is not an official Google product.
