docs/flip/1009-optimizer-api.md, before:

- Start Date: 2021-02-08
- FLIP PR: [#1011](https://github.com/google/flax/pull/1011)
- FLIP Issue: [#1009](https://github.com/google/flax/issues/1009)

Table of contents:

- [Summary]
- [Motivation]
- [Using Optax]
  - [Gradient Transformations]
  - [Optax Training Step]
  - [Multi Optimizer]
  - [Train State]
- [Previous API]
  - [Optimizer and OptimizerDef]
  - [Previous Training Step]
- [Update Plan]
- [Appendix]
  - [Setup Code]

# Summary
[Summary]: #summary

This FLIP proposes to replace our current `flax.optim` API (referred to as
[previous API] in this document) with [Optax], DeepMind's optimizer library.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

Our current API (referred to as [previous API] in this document) uses a pattern
where an `Optimizer` dataclass is created from a pytree of `target` variables
and from an `OptimizerDef` that defines how to update optimizer state,
hyperparameters, and target variables. This pattern is relatively complex for
implementing a simple optimizer, while being quite verbose in the typical Linen
train step (especially when using mutable state collections).

This package `flax.optim` contains some optimizers, but that list is far from
exhaustive and ideally we would instead use JAX optimizers from a dedicated PyPi
package.

DeepMind already has a dedicated library — [Optax] — that implements a wide
range of interesting optimizers and provides a framework to compose new
optimizers from reusable gradient transformations.

[Optax]: https://github.com/deepmind/optax

# Using Optax
[Using Optax]: #using-optax

## Gradient Transformations
[Gradient Transformations]: #gradient-transformations

While [Optax] does provide predefined optimizers (like `optax.adam`, or
`optax.sgd` with momentum), it is really a library of *gradient transformations*
and the idiomatic way of instantiating an optimizer is by providing a
combination of these gradient transformations. To emulate the momentum
optimizer from the example when using the [previous API] we would write:

```python
import optax

tx = optax.chain(
    optax.trace(decay=0.9, nesterov=False),
    optax.scale_by_schedule(lambda step: -get_learning_rate(step)),
)
```

Remarks:

- Above gradient transformation would be equivalent with the example under
  [Optimizer and OptimizerDef] where we define a Momentum optimizer without
  Nesterov momentum (note that the `beta` parameter corresponds to the `decay`
  parameter of the `optax.trace()` transformation, and the learning rate is
  applied in a second chained transformation).
- Note that hyper parameters like `decay` or `nesterov` only exist in the inner
  scope of the higher order functions returning the `GradientTransformation`.
  Such a gradient transformation is currently defined as a `NamedTuple` of the
  `init()` and the `update()` function. In principle this pattern could be
  extended to also store parameters, maybe a point to discuss on the [Optax]
  repo.
- We can use a `get_learning_rate()` that returns the learning rate depending on
  the step number when defining the Optax gradient update transformation. Above
  code illustrates how this can be a drop-in replacement for a function we also
  use in our [previous training step], where this update function already exists
  (notice how we need to invert the sign because we add the gradient update to
  the parameters). See also [Optax
  #20](https://github.com/deepmind/optax/issues/20) for an ongoing discussion
  about scheduling hyper parameters.

## Optax Training Step
[Optax Training Step]: #optax-training-step

```python
@functools.partial(jax.jit, static_argnums=(4, 5))
def train_step(opt_state, variables, inputs, labels, apply_fn, tx_update_fn):

  def loss_fn(params):
    logits, new_model_state = apply_fn(
        variables.copy(dict(params=params)), inputs, mutable=['batch_stats'])
    loss = xent_loss(logits, labels)
    return loss, new_model_state

  variables, params = variables.pop('params')
  (loss, new_model_state), grads = jax.value_and_grad(loss_fn, has_aux=True)(
      params)
  updates, new_opt_state = tx_update_fn(grads, opt_state, params)
  new_params = optax.apply_updates(params, updates)
  new_variables = variables.copy(dict(params=new_params, **new_model_state))
  return new_opt_state, new_variables, loss


opt_state = tx.init(variables['params'])
for batch in ds.as_numpy_iterator():
  opt_state, variables, loss = train_step(
      opt_state, variables, batch['image'], batch['label'], model.apply,
      tx.update)
  print(loss)
```

Remarks:

- Since `tx.update()` only transforms the gradient, we still need to call
  `optax.apply_updates()` to apply these transformed gradients to the
  parameters.
- Compared with the [previous API], we can now keep the entire `variables`
  including the `params` as an input and output to the `train_step()`.
- Splitting `params` from `variables` is still necessary inside the train step
  because we only want to compute gradients with respect to `params` and not the
  entire `variables`.
- We can still log internal optimizer state, such as the learning rate, as long
  as Optax transformations expose that information in their respective state.
  For example, `optax.scale_by_schedule()` currently only exposes
  `opt_state.count` but could easily be extend to also expose the `step_size`.
  The same is true for internal optimizer states that change over time.

## Multi Optimizer
[Multi Optimizer]: #multi-optimizer

The [previous API] defined `flax.optim.MultiOptimizer` for processing different
parts of the parameter tree with different optimizers:

```python
biases_traversal = flax.optim.ModelParamTraversal(
    lambda path, _: path.endswith('/bias'))
not_biases_traversal = flax.optim.ModelParamTraversal(
    lambda path, _: not path.endswith('/bias'))

optimizer_def = flax.optim.MultiOptimizer(
    (biases_traversal, flax.optim.GradientDescent(learning_rate=0.1)),
    (not_biases_traversal, flax.optim.GradientDescent(learning_rate=0.05)),
)
```

Note how we first define a traversal that selects parameters based on their
path (which is the concatenation of module scopes and variable name), and then
create a `MultiOptimizer` that binds a different optimizer for each of these
separate traversals.

Optax has recently implemented `optax.masked()` that can be used for specifying
gradient transformations that only applied to a subset of the gradients:

```python
def dict_map_with_path(fn, d, path=''):  # a crude "ModelParamTraversal"
    if isinstance(d, dict):
        return {k: dict_map_with_path(fn, v, path+'/'+k) for k, v in d.items()}
    return fn(path, d)

is_bias_mask = dict_map_with_path(
    lambda path, value: path.endswith('/bias'), variables['params'])
not_bias_mask = jax.tree_map(lambda x: not x, is_bias_mask)

tx = optax.chain(
    optax.masked(optax.sgd(learning_rate=0.1), mask=is_bias_mask),
    optax.masked(optax.sgd(learning_rate=0.05), mask=not_bias_mask),
)
```

Remarks:

- Above `dict_map_with_path()` emulates `flax.optim.ModelParamTraversal`.
- Note that now we need `variables['params']` already when the gradient
  transformation is defined, i.e. before calling `tx.init()`.
- Note the change in behavior when a parameter matches multiple masks: With
  `flax.optim.ModelParamTraversal` all but the last match would be discarded.
  With `optax.chain(optax.masked())` the gradient updates are simply chained
  and if a gradient matches multiple masks then all those transformations are
  applied.

## Train State
[Train State]: #train-state

In Flax it is common to hand around a `TrainState` object that can then be
used for checkpointing. This simplifies above [Optax training step] a bit by
reducing the number of arguments and getting rid of the `static_argnums`.

```python
class TrainState(flax.struct.PyTreeNode):

  apply_fn: Callable = flax.struct.field(pytree_node=False)
  variables: flax.core.FrozenDict[str, Any]
  tx: optax.GradientTransformation = flax.struct.field(pytree_node=False)
  opt_state: optax.OptState
```

Users can subclass this state and add more fields:

```python
class MyTrainState(TrainState):
  step: int
```

And then [Optax Training Step] becomes:

```python
@jax.jit
def train_step(state, inputs, labels):

  def loss_fn(params):
    outputs, new_model_state = state.apply_fn(
      state.variables.copy({'params': params}), inputs, mutable=['batch_stats'])
    loss = xent_loss(outputs, labels)
    return loss, new_model_state

  (loss, new_model_state), grads = jax.value_and_grad(
      loss_fn, has_aux=True)(state.variables['params'])
  updates, new_opt_state = state.tx.update(
      grads, state.opt_state, state.variables['params'])
  new_params = optax.apply_updates(state.variables['params'], updates)

  new_state = state.replace(
      step=state.step + 1,
      opt_state=new_opt_state,
      variables=state.variables.copy({**new_model_state, 'params': new_params}),
  )

  return new_state, loss

opt_state = tx.init(variables['params'])
state = MyTrainState(
  apply_fn=model.apply,
  variables=variables,
  tx=tx,
  opt_state=opt_state,
  step=0,
  )
for batch in ds.as_numpy_iterator():
  state, loss = train_step(state, batch['image'], batch['label'])
```

Remarks:

- Now `MyTrainState` can be used for (re)storing checkpoints.
- No more need for variable splitting/merging or `static_argnums`.

# Previous API
[previous API]: #previous-api

## Optimizer and OptimizerDef
[Optimizer and OptimizerDef]: #optimizer-and-optimizerdef

The optimizer itself would be implemented by creating a new class derived
from `OpimizerDef`:

```python
# flax/optim/momentum.py

@flax.struct.dataclass
class _MomentumHyperParams:
  learning_rate: jnp.ndarray
  beta: jnp.ndarray


@flax.struct.dataclass
class _MomentumParamState:
  momentum: np.ndarray


class Momentum(flax.optim.OptimizerDef):

  def __init__(self, learning_rate=None, beta=0.9):
    super().__init__(
      _MomentumHyperParams(learning_rate, beta)
    )

  def init_param_state(self, param):
    return _MomentumParamState(jnp.zeros_like(param))

  def apply_param_gradient(self, step, hyper_params, param, state, grad):
    del step
    assert hyper_params.learning_rate is not None
    new_momentum = state.momentum * hyper_params.beta + grad
    new_params = param - hyper_params.learning_rate * new_momentum
    return new_params, _MomentumParamState(new_momentum)
```

Remarks:

- Note the relationship between `OptimizerDef` and `Optimizer` : When the
  function `Optimizer.apply_gradient()` is called from the user code, it calls
  into `OptimizerDef.apply_gradient()` (among other things) which in turn will
  call `OptimizerDef.apply_param_gradient()` (implemented by subclasses of
  `OptimizerDef`).
- The functions `init_param_state()` and `apply_param_gradient()` are called
  for every leaf in the params/grads pytree. This makes it possible to write the
  calculations directly without `jax.tree_multimap()`.
- The interface was defined in pre-Linen without the distinction of `params` vs.
  other collections in `variables` in mind. The original API was elegant because
  one only needed to pass around the optimizer, which included the parameters,
  optimizer state, optimizer hyperparameters, and a reference to the
  `OptimizerDef` to perform the param/state update.

## Previous Training Step
[Previous Training Step]: #previous-training-step

An optimizer would first be constructed from its definition and the pytree of
target params:

```python
optimizer_def = flax.optim.Momentum(learning_rate=0.1, beta=0.9)
optimizer = optimizer_def.create(variables['params'])
```

Then, the target variables would optimized in the train step (assuming a single
non-params collection "batch_stats"):

```python
def make_train_step(apply_fn):
  @jax.jit
  def train_step(optimizer, batch_stats, inputs, labels):

    def loss_fn(params):
      variables = {'params': params, 'batch_stats': batch_stats}
      logits, new_model_state = apply_fn(
          variables, inputs, mutable=['batch_stats'])
      loss = xent_loss(logits, labels)
      return loss, new_model_state['batch_stats']

    (loss, new_batch_stats), grad = jax.value_and_grad(loss_fn, has_aux=True)(
        optimizer.target)
    lr = get_learning_rate(step)
    new_optimizer = optimizer.apply_gradient(grad, learning_rate=lr)
    return new_optimizer, new_batch_stats, loss

  return train_step


batch_stats = variables['batch_stats']
train_step = make_train_step(model.apply)
for step, batch in enumerate(ds)
  optimizer, batch_stats, loss = train_step(
      optimizer, batch_stats, batch['image'], batch['label'])
```

Remarks:

- Notice how `optimizer.apply_gradients()` can take additional arguments to
  update hyperparameters, such as learning rate from an independent function
  `get_learning_rate()` in this case.


# Update Plan
[Update Plan]: #update-plan

1. Finalize discussions on this FLIP
2. Test existing optimizers for numerical equivalence (e.g. `flax.optim.Adam`
   and `optax.adamw`).
3. Update examples to use Optax and verify that they reach the same final
   performance with the same computational cost. We probably want some examples
   to directly use the optimizer while others might use [Linen helper].
4. Port missing optimizers to Optax (e.g. Adafactor) - and verify above points.
5. Update all documentation (including README, Flax guided tour, HOWTOs, ...) to
   talk exclusively about Optax optimizers.
6. Mark optimizers in `flax.optim` as deprecated.

Note that all current Flax examples use an optimizer that is already available
in Optax:

| Example  |      Flax      |    Optax    |              Comments               |
| -------- | -------------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------- |
| imagenet | optim.Momentum | optax.sgd   | DynamicScale can be used unchanged. |
| mnist    | optim.Momentum | optax.sgd   |                                     |
| nlp_seq  | optim.Adam     | optax.adamw |                                     |
| pixelcnn | optim.Adam     | optax.adam  |                                     |
| ppo      | optim.Adam     | optax.adam  |                                     |
| seq2seq  | optim.Adam     | optax.adam  |                                     |
| vae      | optim.Adam     | optax.adam  |                                     |
| wmt      | optim.Adam     | optax.adamw |                                     |

(Flax's Adam implementation has an optional parameter for weight decay, but in
Optax Adam with and without weight decay are two different aliases.)

# Appendix
[Appendix]: #appendix

## Setup Code
[Setup Code]: #setup-code

The following setup code can be used for running the code snippets in this
FLIP:

```python
import functools
from typing import Callable, Sequence

import jax
import jax.numpy as jnp
import flax
import flax.linen as nn
import tensorflow as tf
import tensorflow_datasets as tfds


def pp(features):
  return {
      'image': tf.cast(features['image'], tf.float32) / 255 - 0.5,
      'label': features['label'],
  }


class Model(nn.Module):

  @nn.compact
  def __call__(self, inputs):
    x = inputs.reshape([inputs.shape[0], -1])
    x = nn.normalization.BatchNorm(True)(x)
    x = nn.Dense(10)(x)
    x = nn.log_softmax(x)
    return x


def onehot(labels, num_classes, on_value=1.0, off_value=0.0):
  x = (labels[..., None] == jnp.arange(num_classes)[None])
  x = jax.lax.select(
      x, jnp.full(x.shape, on_value), jnp.full(x.shape, off_value))
  return x.astype(jnp.float32)


def xent_loss(logits, labels):
  return -jnp.sum(
      onehot(labels, num_classes=10) * logits) / labels.size


def get_learning_rate(step):
  return 0.1


model = Model()
rng = jax.random.PRNGKey(0)
ds = tfds.load('mnist')['train'].take(160).map(pp).batch(16)
batch = next(iter(ds))
variables = model.init(rng, jnp.array(batch['image'][:1]))
jax.tree_map(jnp.shape, variables)
```

Commit message:

Adds reference to Optax #48 schedule_hyperparams.

docs/flip/1009-optimizer-api.md, after:

- Start Date: 2021-02-08
- FLIP PR: [#1011](https://github.com/google/flax/pull/1011)
- FLIP Issue: [#1009](https://github.com/google/flax/issues/1009)

Table of contents:

- [Summary]
- [Motivation]
- [Using Optax]
  - [Gradient Transformations]
  - [Optax Training Step]
  - [Multi Optimizer]
  - [Train State]
- [Previous API]
  - [Optimizer and OptimizerDef]
  - [Previous Training Step]
- [Update Plan]
- [Appendix]
  - [Setup Code]

# Summary
[Summary]: #summary

This FLIP proposes to replace our current `flax.optim` API (referred to as
[previous API] in this document) with [Optax], DeepMind's optimizer library.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

Our current API (referred to as [previous API] in this document) uses a pattern
where an `Optimizer` dataclass is created from a pytree of `target` variables
and from an `OptimizerDef` that defines how to update optimizer state,
hyperparameters, and target variables. This pattern is relatively complex for
implementing a simple optimizer, while being quite verbose in the typical Linen
train step (especially when using mutable state collections).

This package `flax.optim` contains some optimizers, but that list is far from
exhaustive and ideally we would instead use JAX optimizers from a dedicated PyPi
package.

DeepMind already has a dedicated library — [Optax] — that implements a wide
range of interesting optimizers and provides a framework to compose new
optimizers from reusable gradient transformations.

[Optax]: https://github.com/deepmind/optax

# Using Optax
[Using Optax]: #using-optax

## Gradient Transformations
[Gradient Transformations]: #gradient-transformations

While [Optax] does provide predefined optimizers (like `optax.adam`, or
`optax.sgd` with momentum), it is really a library of *gradient transformations*
and the idiomatic way of instantiating an optimizer is by providing a
combination of these gradient transformations. To emulate the momentum
optimizer from the example when using the [previous API] we would write:

```python
import optax

tx = optax.chain(
    optax.trace(decay=0.9, nesterov=False),
    optax.scale_by_schedule(lambda step: -get_learning_rate(step)),
)
```

Remarks:

- Above gradient transformation would be equivalent with the example under
  [Optimizer and OptimizerDef] where we define a Momentum optimizer without
  Nesterov momentum (note that the `beta` parameter corresponds to the `decay`
  parameter of the `optax.trace()` transformation, and the learning rate is
  applied in a second chained transformation).
- Note that hyper parameters like `decay` or `nesterov` only exist in the inner
  scope of the higher order functions returning the `GradientTransformation`.
  Such a gradient transformation is currently defined as a `NamedTuple` of the
  `init()` and the `update()` function. In principle this pattern could be
  extended to also store parameters, maybe a point to discuss on the [Optax]
  repo.
- We can use a `get_learning_rate()` that returns the learning rate depending on
  the step number when defining the Optax gradient update transformation. Above
  code illustrates how this can be a drop-in replacement for a function we also
  use in our [previous training step], where this update function already exists
  (notice how we need to invert the sign because we add the gradient update to
  the parameters). Since
  [schedule_hyperparams](https://github.com/deepmind/optax/pull/48) Optax
  supports scheduling arbitrary hyper parameters, not only the learning rate.

## Optax Training Step
[Optax Training Step]: #optax-training-step

```python
@functools.partial(jax.jit, static_argnums=(4, 5))
def train_step(opt_state, variables, inputs, labels, apply_fn, tx_update_fn):

  def loss_fn(params):
    logits, new_model_state = apply_fn(
        variables.copy(dict(params=params)), inputs, mutable=['batch_stats'])
    loss = xent_loss(logits, labels)
    return loss, new_model_state

  variables, params = variables.pop('params')
  (loss, new_model_state), grads = jax.value_and_grad(loss_fn, has_aux=True)(
      params)
  updates, new_opt_state = tx_update_fn(grads, opt_state, params)
  new_params = optax.apply_updates(params, updates)
  new_variables = variables.copy(dict(params=new_params, **new_model_state))
  return new_opt_state, new_variables, loss


opt_state = tx.init(variables['params'])
for batch in ds.as_numpy_iterator():
  opt_state, variables, loss = train_step(
      opt_state, variables, batch['image'], batch['label'], model.apply,
      tx.update)
  print(loss)
```

Remarks:

- Since `tx.update()` only transforms the gradient, we still need to call
  `optax.apply_updates()` to apply these transformed gradients to the
  parameters.
- Compared with the [previous API], we can now keep the entire `variables`
  including the `params` as an input and output to the `train_step()`.
- Splitting `params` from `variables` is still necessary inside the train step
  because we only want to compute gradients with respect to `params` and not the
  entire `variables`.
- We can still log internal optimizer state, such as the learning rate, as long
  as Optax transformations expose that information in their respective state.
  For example, `optax.scale_by_schedule()` currently only exposes
  `opt_state.count` but could easily be extend to also expose the `step_size`.
  The same is true for internal optimizer states that change over time.

## Multi Optimizer
[Multi Optimizer]: #multi-optimizer

The [previous API] defined `flax.optim.MultiOptimizer` for processing different
parts of the parameter tree with different optimizers:

```python
biases_traversal = flax.optim.ModelParamTraversal(
    lambda path, _: path.endswith('/bias'))
not_biases_traversal = flax.optim.ModelParamTraversal(
    lambda path, _: not path.endswith('/bias'))

optimizer_def = flax.optim.MultiOptimizer(
    (biases_traversal, flax.optim.GradientDescent(learning_rate=0.1)),
    (not_biases_traversal, flax.optim.GradientDescent(learning_rate=0.05)),
)
```

Note how we first define a traversal that selects parameters based on their
path (which is the concatenation of module scopes and variable name), and then
create a `MultiOptimizer` that binds a different optimizer for each of these
separate traversals.

Optax has recently implemented `optax.masked()` that can be used for specifying
gradient transformations that only applied to a subset of the gradients:

```python
def dict_map_with_path(fn, d, path=''):  # a crude "ModelParamTraversal"
    if isinstance(d, dict):
        return {k: dict_map_with_path(fn, v, path+'/'+k) for k, v in d.items()}
    return fn(path, d)

is_bias_mask = dict_map_with_path(
    lambda path, value: path.endswith('/bias'), variables['params'])
not_bias_mask = jax.tree_map(lambda x: not x, is_bias_mask)

tx = optax.chain(
    optax.masked(optax.sgd(learning_rate=0.1), mask=is_bias_mask),
    optax.masked(optax.sgd(learning_rate=0.05), mask=not_bias_mask),
)
```

Remarks:

- Above `dict_map_with_path()` emulates `flax.optim.ModelParamTraversal`.
- Note that now we need `variables['params']` already when the gradient
  transformation is defined, i.e. before calling `tx.init()`.
- Note the change in behavior when a parameter matches multiple masks: With
  `flax.optim.ModelParamTraversal` all but the last match would be discarded.
  With `optax.chain(optax.masked())` the gradient updates are simply chained
  and if a gradient matches multiple masks then all those transformations are
  applied.

## Train State
[Train State]: #train-state

In Flax it is common to hand around a `TrainState` object that can then be
used for checkpointing. This simplifies above [Optax training step] a bit by
reducing the number of arguments and getting rid of the `static_argnums`.

```python
class TrainState(flax.struct.PyTreeNode):

  apply_fn: Callable = flax.struct.field(pytree_node=False)
  variables: flax.core.FrozenDict[str, Any]
  tx: optax.GradientTransformation = flax.struct.field(pytree_node=False)
  opt_state: optax.OptState
```

Users can subclass this state and add more fields:

```python
class MyTrainState(TrainState):
  step: int
```

And then [Optax Training Step] becomes:

```python
@jax.jit
def train_step(state, inputs, labels):

  def loss_fn(params):
    outputs, new_model_state = state.apply_fn(
      state.variables.copy({'params': params}), inputs, mutable=['batch_stats'])
    loss = xent_loss(outputs, labels)
    return loss, new_model_state

  (loss, new_model_state), grads = jax.value_and_grad(
      loss_fn, has_aux=True)(state.variables['params'])
  updates, new_opt_state = state.tx.update(
      grads, state.opt_state, state.variables['params'])
  new_params = optax.apply_updates(state.variables['params'], updates)

  new_state = state.replace(
      step=state.step + 1,
      opt_state=new_opt_state,
      variables=state.variables.copy({**new_model_state, 'params': new_params}),
  )

  return new_state, loss

opt_state = tx.init(variables['params'])
state = MyTrainState(
  apply_fn=model.apply,
  variables=variables,
  tx=tx,
  opt_state=opt_state,
  step=0,
  )
for batch in ds.as_numpy_iterator():
  state, loss = train_step(state, batch['image'], batch['label'])
```

Remarks:

- Now `MyTrainState` can be used for (re)storing checkpoints.
- No more need for variable splitting/merging or `static_argnums`.

# Previous API
[previous API]: #previous-api

## Optimizer and OptimizerDef
[Optimizer and OptimizerDef]: #optimizer-and-optimizerdef

The optimizer itself would be implemented by creating a new class derived
from `OpimizerDef`:

```python
# flax/optim/momentum.py

@flax.struct.dataclass
class _MomentumHyperParams:
  learning_rate: jnp.ndarray
  beta: jnp.ndarray


@flax.struct.dataclass
class _MomentumParamState:
  momentum: np.ndarray


class Momentum(flax.optim.OptimizerDef):

  def __init__(self, learning_rate=None, beta=0.9):
    super().__init__(
      _MomentumHyperParams(learning_rate, beta)
    )

  def init_param_state(self, param):
    return _MomentumParamState(jnp.zeros_like(param))

  def apply_param_gradient(self, step, hyper_params, param, state, grad):
    del step
    assert hyper_params.learning_rate is not None
    new_momentum = state.momentum * hyper_params.beta + grad
    new_params = param - hyper_params.learning_rate * new_momentum
    return new_params, _MomentumParamState(new_momentum)
```

Remarks:

- Note the relationship between `OptimizerDef` and `Optimizer` : When the
  function `Optimizer.apply_gradient()` is called from the user code, it calls
  into `OptimizerDef.apply_gradient()` (among other things) which in turn will
  call `OptimizerDef.apply_param_gradient()` (implemented by subclasses of
  `OptimizerDef`).
- The functions `init_param_state()` and `apply_param_gradient()` are called
  for every leaf in the params/grads pytree. This makes it possible to write the
  calculations directly without `jax.tree_multimap()`.
- The interface was defined in pre-Linen without the distinction of `params` vs.
  other collections in `variables` in mind. The original API was elegant because
  one only needed to pass around the optimizer, which included the parameters,
  optimizer state, optimizer hyperparameters, and a reference to the
  `OptimizerDef` to perform the param/state update.

## Previous Training Step
[Previous Training Step]: #previous-training-step

An optimizer would first be constructed from its definition and the pytree of
target params:

```python
optimizer_def = flax.optim.Momentum(learning_rate=0.1, beta=0.9)
optimizer = optimizer_def.create(variables['params'])
```

Then, the target variables would optimized in the train step (assuming a single
non-params collection "batch_stats"):

```python
def make_train_step(apply_fn):
  @jax.jit
  def train_step(optimizer, batch_stats, inputs, labels):

    def loss_fn(params):
      variables = {'params': params, 'batch_stats': batch_stats}
      logits, new_model_state = apply_fn(
          variables, inputs, mutable=['batch_stats'])
      loss = xent_loss(logits, labels)
      return loss, new_model_state['batch_stats']

    (loss, new_batch_stats), grad = jax.value_and_grad(loss_fn, has_aux=True)(
        optimizer.target)
    lr = get_learning_rate(step)
    new_optimizer = optimizer.apply_gradient(grad, learning_rate=lr)
    return new_optimizer, new_batch_stats, loss

  return train_step


batch_stats = variables['batch_stats']
train_step = make_train_step(model.apply)
for step, batch in enumerate(ds)
  optimizer, batch_stats, loss = train_step(
      optimizer, batch_stats, batch['image'], batch['label'])
```

Remarks:

- Notice how `optimizer.apply_gradients()` can take additional arguments to
  update hyperparameters, such as learning rate from an independent function
  `get_learning_rate()` in this case.


# Update Plan
[Update Plan]: #update-plan

1. Finalize discussions on this FLIP
2. Test existing optimizers for numerical equivalence (e.g. `flax.optim.Adam`
   and `optax.adamw`).
3. Update examples to use Optax and verify that they reach the same final
   performance with the same computational cost. We probably want some examples
   to directly use the optimizer while others might use [Linen helper].
4. Port missing optimizers to Optax (e.g. Adafactor) - and verify above points.
5. Update all documentation (including README, Flax guided tour, HOWTOs, ...) to
   talk exclusively about Optax optimizers.
6. Mark optimizers in `flax.optim` as deprecated.

Note that all current Flax examples use an optimizer that is already available
in Optax:

| Example  |      Flax      |    Optax    |              Comments               |
| -------- | -------------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------- |
| imagenet | optim.Momentum | optax.sgd   | DynamicScale can be used unchanged. |
| mnist    | optim.Momentum | optax.sgd   |                                     |
| nlp_seq  | optim.Adam     | optax.adamw |                                     |
| pixelcnn | optim.Adam     | optax.adam  |                                     |
| ppo      | optim.Adam     | optax.adam  |                                     |
| seq2seq  | optim.Adam     | optax.adam  |                                     |
| vae      | optim.Adam     | optax.adam  |                                     |
| wmt      | optim.Adam     | optax.adamw |                                     |

(Flax's Adam implementation has an optional parameter for weight decay, but in
Optax Adam with and without weight decay are two different aliases.)

# Appendix
[Appendix]: #appendix

## Setup Code
[Setup Code]: #setup-code

The following setup code can be used for running the code snippets in this
FLIP:

```python
import functools
from typing import Callable, Sequence

import jax
import jax.numpy as jnp
import flax
import flax.linen as nn
import tensorflow as tf
import tensorflow_datasets as tfds


def pp(features):
  return {
      'image': tf.cast(features['image'], tf.float32) / 255 - 0.5,
      'label': features['label'],
  }


class Model(nn.Module):

  @nn.compact
  def __call__(self, inputs):
    x = inputs.reshape([inputs.shape[0], -1])
    x = nn.normalization.BatchNorm(True)(x)
    x = nn.Dense(10)(x)
    x = nn.log_softmax(x)
    return x


def onehot(labels, num_classes, on_value=1.0, off_value=0.0):
  x = (labels[..., None] == jnp.arange(num_classes)[None])
  x = jax.lax.select(
      x, jnp.full(x.shape, on_value), jnp.full(x.shape, off_value))
  return x.astype(jnp.float32)


def xent_loss(logits, labels):
  return -jnp.sum(
      onehot(labels, num_classes=10) * logits) / labels.size


def get_learning_rate(step):
  return 0.1


model = Model()
rng = jax.random.PRNGKey(0)
ds = tfds.load('mnist')['train'].take(160).map(pp).batch(16)
batch = next(iter(ds))
variables = model.init(rng, jnp.array(batch['image'][:1]))
jax.tree_map(jnp.shape, variables)
```
